In this lecture, I'm going to explain the changes we're going to make to really supercharge our page
object model framework.
So this lecture will provide an overview of all the changes we need to make to our framework to implement
Fred Local.
We would also use this opportunity to improve our overall framework design.
By the end of this section, you would have a fully functional framework that allows you to run tests
using parallel execution.
This brings us up to commercial standards, i.e. standards you will find in the real working world.
So the first change will be to the base page class will be amending the existing code.
We will be removing the driver initialization code out of the base page class and moving it into a new
class that is solely responsible for managing and initializing the driver object.
And this is for better maintainability, and the new class will be named web driver instance.
We'll amend the base page constructor to use the new Web driver instance class.
And in this diagram I've highlighted the public static web driver driver line, which I intend to move
and change into the Web driver instance class, which is highlighted in the left.
But also be moving the drive initialization code where we using prop don't get properties.
So this too will be handled in the new web driver instance class.
The base Paige get driver method will use the new web driver instance class to initialize the driver.
So we're going to still keep the jet driver method in the base page, but will be changing this to now
use the web driver instance class to code.
You get driver method where there would also be a get driver method that belongs to the web driver instance
class.
Some other very minor adjustments will also be made to the base page class, for which I'll explain
in detail during the demonstrations.
So we'd also be creating the new web driver instance class and new code will be added so that the driver
uses Fred local and I have provided screenshots of how this will look.
Will be used in the Fred Lowe who set and get methods to set each Fred's driver variables.
So very briefly, I'm using an if statement.
Let's check in the drive up variable to see if it's null.
And if it is, then I want to set the driver variable and I'll be using a method called Create Driver,
which will belong to the web driver instance class.
So we would also be adding a new method called cleanup driver and it will be responsible to close the
FRED local session when the test completes.
Next will be creating a new class could hook slot java.
So the new Hook's class will be created to take care of our before test and after test annotation code.
So currently we declare this code in each and every test class.
It makes more sense to define this once in the framework use in a separate class as shown.
So on the left hand side I have created hooks dot java.
And this class contains the before test and after test code.
So this will mean that we can simply use this this class within our tests rather than having it defined
in each and every test class.
Next would need to amend our page object classes, so we need to make several changes to our page objects.
Each page object class will now extend the base page class.
When they need to use the base page constructor using a super keyword and pass a web drive up parameter.
We need to make small adjustments to each method to use the get driver class from the base page class.
Next, we need to make changes to our test classes.
So we're going to move to before test and after test annotation codes as this is now handled in Hook's
class.
Both our tests classes now need to extend the Hooks class to be able to access the before test and after
test annotation code.
We no longer need to pass the driver object when creating a new page object.
So we're going to be changing.
And I'm showing you the shop home page line as an example, where before we had to set or pass the drive
a variable as a parameter.
So we'll be changing our test classes as we no longer need to pass that driver parameter when creating
that new object.
So the key thing I want you to take away from this lecture is don't worry about the changes.
They seem like a lot, but they're actually very simple.
I will show you how to make each change in easy to follow steps.
Once we make these adjustments, your tests will run using parallel execution using Fred Local, which
is an advanced subject that not many people know about.